12/29/24, 1:09 PM



Intra Projects Inception-of-Things Edit

 (https://profile.intra.42.fr/searches)

pnamnil

(https://profile.intra.42.fr)

SCALE FOR PROJECT INCEPTION-OF-THINGS
(/PROJECTS/INCEPTION-OF-THINGS)
You should evaluate 2 students in this team



Git repository

git@vogsphere.42bangkok.com:vogsphere/intra-uuid-6e8d9ed6-05cf-4ce1-



Introduction
Please comply with the following rules:
- Remain polite, courteous, respectful and constructive throughout the
evaluation process. The well-being of the community depends on it.
- Identify with the student or group whose work is evaluated the possible
dysfunctions in their project. Take the time to discuss and debate the
problems that may have been identified.
- You must consider that there might be some differences in how your peers
might have understood the project's instructions and the scope of its
functionalities. Always keep an open mind and grade them as honestly as
possible. The pedagogy is useful only and only if the peer-evaluation is
done seriously.

Guidelines
- Only grade the work that was turned in the Git repository of the evaluated
student or group.
- Double-check that the Git repository belongs to the student(s). Ensure that
the project is the one expected. Also, check that 'git clone' is used in an
empty folder.
- Check carefully that no malicious aliases was used to fool you and make you
evaluate something that is not the content of the official repository.
- To avoid any surprises and if applicable, review together any scripts used
to facilitate the grading (scripts for testing or automation).
- If you have not completed the assignment you are going to evaluate, you have
to read the entire subject prior to starting the evaluation process.
- Use the available flags to report an empty repository, a non-functioning
program, a Norm error, cheating, and so forth.
In these cases, the evaluation process ends and the final grade is 0,
or -42 in case of cheating. However, except for cheating, student are
strongly encouraged to review together the work that was turned in, in order
to identify any mistakes that shouldn't be repeated in the future.

Attachments
 subject.pdf (https://cdn.intra.42.fr/pdf/pdf/143948/en.subject.pdf)
Preliminaries
If cheating is suspected, the evaluation stops here. Use the "Cheat" flag to report it. Take this decision calmly,
wisely, and please, use this button with caution.
Preliminary tests
Defense can only happen if the evaluated group is present. This way everybody learns by sharing knowled
with each other.
If no work has been submitted (or wrong files, or wrong directory, or wrong filenames), the grade is 0, and
evaluation process ends.
For this project, you have to clone the Git repository on the group's machine.

https://projects.intra.42.fr/scale_teams/7612241/edit

1/4

12/29/24, 1:09 PM

Intra Projects Inception-of-Things Edit
For this project, you must use the virtual machine of 42.

 Yes

 No

General instructions
General instructions
During the defense, whenever you need help in order to verify a requirement of the subject, the evaluated
group must help you.
Ensure that all the files required for the three different parts of the project are in the folders p1, p2 and p3
respectively. There may be an additional bonus folder.

 Yes

 No

Mandatory part
The project consists of setting up several infrastructures with different services that use K3s, Vagrant and K3d.
Make sure that all of the following requirements are met.
Global configuration and explanation
Those being evaluated should explain to you in a simple way:
The basic operation of K3s.
The basic operation of Vagrant.
The basic operation of K3d.
What is a continuous integration and Argo CD.

 Yes

 No

Part 1 - Configuration
Check that a Vagrantfile is present in the p1 folder. Once done, check its content. Thanks to the help of the
evaluated persons, you should basically understand this file. It must be similar to the example given in the
subject.
Check that there are two virtual machines in the Vagrantfile.
In the Vagrantfile, check that the latest stable version of the distribution of the choice of the evaluated grou
is used for both virtual machines.
Check that there is an eth1 interface with the IP addresses required by the subject.
The names chosen for the two virtual machines must include a login of a member of the group. For the firs
machine, it must be followed by S (like Server), and for the second one, by SW (like ServerWorker). If
something does not work as expected, the evaluation stops here.

 Yes

 No

Part 1 - Usage
Use Vagrant to SSH into both virtual machine with the help of the evaluated group.
Ensure there is an eth1 interface with the IP addresses required by the subject by using the command:
"ifconfig eth1" for macOS "ip a show eth1" for latest Linux distributions
Ensure both machines have the hostname required by the subject.
Then, check that both virtual machines use K3s. The evaluated group should be able to help you.
Finally, verify that the Server machine and the Agent machine are in the same cluster by running this
command on the Server machine: "kubectl get nodes -o wide" An output similar to the one given as an
example in the subject is expected. The evaluated group must explain to you the output. If something does
not work as expected, the evaluation stops here.

 Yes

 No

Part 2 - Configuration
To avoid space/performance issues, you can of course shut down every other running virtual machines wit
the help of the evaluated group.
Check that a Vagrantfile is present in the p2 folder. Once done, check its content. Thanks to the help of the
evaluated persons, you should basically understand this file. It must be similar to the example given in the
part 1 of the subject.
Check that there is only one virtual machine in the Vagrantfile.
In the Vagrantfile, check that the latest stable version of the distribution of the evaluated group choice is us
for the virtual machine.
Check that there is an eth1 interface with the IP address required by the subject.
The name chosen for the virtual machine must include a login of a member of the group followed by the
capital letter S.

https://projects.intra.42.fr/scale_teams/7612241/edit

2/4

12/29/24, 1:09 PM

Intra Projects Inception-of-Things Edit
If extra files are present in the p2 folder, verify them and ask for explanations. If something does not work
expected, the evaluation stops here.

 Yes

 No

Part 2 - Usage
Use Vagrant to SSH into the virtual machine with the help of the evaluated group.
Ensure there is an eth1 interface with the IP address required by the subject by using the command: "ifcon
eth1" for macOS "ip a show eth1" for latest Linux distributions
Ensure the machine has the hostname required by the subject.
Then, check that the virtual machine uses K3s. The evaluated group should be able to help you.
Verify that the virtual machine meets the subject's requirements. To do so, use the following commands:
"kubectl get nodes -o wide" It should display the name of the controller and the internal IP address. "kubet
get all" It should display 3 applications. For reference you can find an example in the part 2 section of the
subject. The evaluated group must explain to you each output. Next, they must show you how their Ingres
works. The command is deliberately not given here.
Now, check that the 3 applications can be accessed depending on the HOST header that is used (have a
look at the subject). To do so, you can use curl with the help of evaluated group, or just a browser (for a we
application). You will have to change the HOST in order to see some differences.
If something does not work as expected, the evaluation stops here.

 Yes

 No

Part 3 - Configuration
Thanks to the evaluted group, start up the infrastructure.
Check that the configuration files are present in the p3 folder. Once done, check their content. Don't hesita
to ask for more precise explanations. This part is essential to understand what's next.
Make sure there is at least 2 namespaces in K3d: "argocd" and "dev". Use the command: "kubectl get ns"
Verify that there is at least 1 pod in the "dev" namespace. Use the command: "kubectl get pods -n dev"
Ensure the group members understand the differences between a namespace and a pod.
Check that all the required services are running with the help of the evaluated group.
Check that Argo CD is installed and configured. You can access it in your web browser. You will need a log
and a password. The evaluated group will give them to you.
Check that the login of someone of the group was put in the name of the Github repository (e.g., if a login
was "wil", the name could be "wil_config" or "wil-ception"). Read the subject carefully to understand this pa
Check that a Docker image is used in the Github repository. The image can be Wil's or a custom one. In th
second case, verify that the login of a member of the group was put in the name of the Dockerhub reposito
Also, ensure that there are the two required tags in the Dockerhub repository.
If there are extra files in the p3 folder, ask for explanations. If something does not work as expected, the
evaluation stops here.

 Yes

 No

Partie 3 - Usage
Now that you can use Argo CD, try to understand how it basically works. With the help of the evaluated
group, navigate through the application. Do not hesitate to ask questions here. If you have any doubt (may
their explanations are confused or they can't explain something they should know), the evaluation stops no
It is important.
Check that the v1 application can be accessed from this machine. You can use curl (there is an example
usage in the subject).
Verify that Dockerhub is used. This part is important. In case of any doubt, the evaluation stops now.
Since you can see the v1 application, you must be able to update it with the help of the evaluated group. U
the configuration file on Github that Argo CD relays on. You must commit and push a modification. It will
automatically trigger the update of your application. You must be able to understand how this whole proces
works. Do not hesitate to ask for explanations.
Now that you have pushed the v2 application on Github, if synchronizing didn't happen, do it manually in A
CD (if it did happen, skip this step). The evaluated people must help you.
Ensure that the application was successfully synchronized using operation given as an example in the
subject. The evaluated people must help you.
If something does not work as expected, the evaluation stops now.

 Yes

 No

Bonus
Evaluate the bonus part if, and only if, the mandatory part has been entirely and perfectly done, and the error
management handles unexpected or wrong usage. In case all the mandatory points were not passed during the
defense, bonus points must be totally ignored.
Bonus

https://projects.intra.42.fr/scale_teams/7612241/edit

3/4

12/29/24, 1:09 PM

Intra Projects Inception-of-Things Edit
Check if there are configuration files in the bonus folder. Ask for explanations about each of them.
Test Gitlab functions correctly and was properly implemented. To do so, create a new repository with the h
of the evaluated group. Then, try to add some code in it. Check the operation was successful on Gitlab.
The last step is quite simple. Make sure that the operations of the part 3 of the subject still function correct
Ensure that the repository used in Argo CD is a local repository on Gitlab. The evaluated group should gui
you in this process so you can verify the operations works as expected with the two versions of the chosen
application.
If the synchronization and the version change of the application are completed with no errors, validate this
part.

 Yes

 No

Ratings
Don’t forget to check the flag corresponding to the defense

 Ok
Empty work

 Incomplete work

 Outstanding project
 Cheat

d Crash

 Incomplete group

 Concerning situation

l Forbidden function

Conclusion
Leave a comment on this evaluation

Finish evaluation

Declaration on the use of cookies
(https://profile.intra.42.fr/legal/terms/2)

General term of use of the site
(https://profile.intra.42.fr/legal/terms/6)

https://projects.intra.42.fr/scale_teams/7612241/edit

Legal notices
(https://profile.intra.42.fr/legal/terms/3)

Privacy policy
(https://profile.intra.42.fr/legal/terms/5)

Bangkok's R
(https://profile.int

4/4

